(DOCSP-39838) [CPP Driver] Write Data to MongoDB > Replace a Document (#62)
mongodb/docs-cpp: source/write/replace.txt

    :end-before: end-db-coll
    :language: cpp
    :dedent:

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>`.

Replace Operation
-----------------

You can perform a replace operation by calling the ``replace_one()`` method.
This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first document that
matches the search criteria. It then inserts the fields and values you specify into the document. 

Each replace method requires the following parameters:

- **Query filter** document: Specifies which document to replace. For
  more information about query filters, see 
  :manual:`Query Filter Documents </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
  the {+mdb-server+} manual.

- **Replace** document: Specifies the fields and values to insert in the new document. 

.. important:: 

   The values of ``_id`` fields are immutable. If your replacement document specifies a value for the ``_id`` field, 
   it must match the ``_id`` value of the existing document.

Replace One Document Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example uses the ``replace_one()`` method to replace 

> a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``Nobu`` with a new document 
> that has a ``name`` field value of ``La Bernadin``:

Reviewer: S: when describing fields and values, we don't use quotes for field names (so you did that correctly!) but we use quotes for values:
```suggestion
a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``"Nobu"`` with a new document 
that has a ``name`` field value of ``"La Bernadin"``:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
   :start-after: start-replace-one
   :end-before: end-replace-one
   :language: cpp
   :dedent:

> To check if you successfully replaced the document, you can use the :ref:`find_one() <cpp-retrieve-find-one>` method to print out the new document:

Reviewer: S: we try to avoid adding a link to a term without describing where the link goes ([style guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/links-and-cross-references/#make-link-text-clear)). You could remove this inline link and add a tip admonition after the code example that says something like "To learn more about the ``find_one()`` method, see :ref:`cpp-retrieve-find-one` in the Retrieve Data guide."

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-one-io
      :end-before: end-replace-one-io
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:
   
   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false
      
      New document: { "_id" : { "$oid" : "5eb3d668b31de5d588f42e34" }, "name" : "La Bernadin" }  

Options 
~~~~~~~

You can modify the behavior of the ``replace_one()`` method by
passing an instance of the ``mongocxx::options::replace`` class as an optional
argument. The following table describes the fields you can set in a

> ``mongocxx::options::update`` instance:

Reviewer: I: I think this should say mongocxx::options::replace:
```suggestion
``mongocxx::options::replace`` instance:
```

       | Defaults to ``false``.

   * - ``collation``
     - | Specifies the kind of language collation to use when sorting
         results. For more information, see :manual:`Collation </reference/collation/#std-label-collation>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``comment``
     - | Specifies a comment of any valid BSON type to attach to the operation. 
         Once set, this comment appears alongside records of this command in the following locations:

       - :ref:`mongod log messages <log-messages-ref>`, in the
         ``attr.command.cursor.comment`` field
       - :ref:`Database profiler output <profiler>`, in the :data:`system.profile.command <system.profile.command>` ``comment`` field
       - :dbcommand:`currentOp` output, in the :data:`currentOp.command
         <currentOp.command>` ``comment`` field

       | For more information, see the :manual:`insert Command
         Fields guide </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``hint``
     - | Specifies the index to scan for documents that match the query filter.
         For more information, see the

>          :manual:`Update Statement fields guide </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-statement-documents>`

Reviewer: S: you can link directly to "hint" and make the link text a little more specific:
```suggestion
         :manual:`hint field </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
```

         in the {+mdb-server+} manual. 

   * - ``let``
     - | Specifies a document containing variables and their values to be used in the ``replace_one()`` method. 
         This allows you to improve code readability by separating the variables from the operation text. 
         Values must be constant or closed expressions that don't reference document fields. 
         For more information, see the 
         :manual:`update Command Fields guide </reference/command/update/#std-label-replace-let-syntax>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``upsert``
     - | Specifies whether the replace operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter.
       | Defaults to ``false``.

   * - ``write_concern``
     - | Sets the write concern for the operation.
         For more information, see :manual:`Write Concern </reference/write-concern/>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

> Example: ``hint``

Reviewer: S: the [style guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/titles-and-headings/#style-and-structure) doesn't like monospace in headers, so I'd remove that:
```suggestion
Example: hint
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The following example uses the :ref:`create_index() <cpp-indexes>` method to create an ascending single-field index 
> on the ``name`` field. It then instantiates a ``mongocxx::options::replace`` object called ``opts`` and sets its ``hints`` field value to the name 
> of the new index, ``name_1``. When ``opts`` is passed in as an optional argument, the ``replace_one()`` method searches the ``name_1`` index for a
> ``name`` field value of ``Nobu`` and replaces the associated document with a new document that has a ``name`` field value of ``La Bernadin``.  

Reviewer: S: I think you can condense this description a little bit. We try to describe what's happening in the code conceptually more than describing the actual code text (names of variables, for example), so you could edit to something like:
```suggestion
The following example uses the ``create_index()`` method to create an ascending single-field index 
on the ``name`` field. It then passes a ``mongocxx::options::replace`` object to the ``replace_one()`` method and sets its ``hint`` field to the new index. This instructs the operation to use the ``name`` field index when replacing the document with a ``name`` value of ``"Nobu"``:
```

Reviewer: And since you have the link below to the Indexes guide, I don't think you need the inline link on create_index()

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
   :start-after: start-replace-options-hint
   :end-before: end-replace-options-hint
   :language: cpp
   :dedent:

To learn more about indexes, see :ref:`Optimize Queries with Indexes <cpp-indexes>`.

> Example: ``upsert`` 

Reviewer: S: same suggestion about monospace
```suggestion
Example: upsert
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The following example instantiates a ``mongocxx::options::replace`` object called ``opts``
> and sets its ``upsert`` field value to ``true``.  When ``opts`` is passed in as an optional argument, the ``replace_one()`` method
> searches the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection for a document with a ``name`` field value of ``In-N-Out Burger``. 
> Because this sample collection does not contain a document matching this query filter,
> the ``replace_one()`` method upserts a new document with a ``name`` field value of ``Shake Shack`` into the collection. 

Reviewer: S: similar to my suggestion above, I'd shorten this description to something resembling:
```suggestion
The following example passes a ``mongocxx::options::replace`` object to the ``replace_one()`` method and sets its ``upsert`` field value to ``true``.  Because no documents match the query filter, this instructs the operation to insert a new document with a ``name`` field value of ``"Shake Shack"`` into the collection:
```

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-options-upsert
      :end-before: end-replace-options-upsert
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false
      
      Total document count before replace_one(): 25359
      Total document count after replace_one(): 25360

Return Value
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``replace_one()`` method returns an instance of
the ``mongocxx::result::replace`` class. This class contains the following
member functions:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

>    * - Field

Reviewer: S: I'd change to "function" or "method":
```suggestion
   * - Function
```

     - Description

   * - ``matched_count()``
     - | Returns the number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
         how many were replaced.

   * - ``modified_count()``
     - | Returns number of documents modified by the replace operation. If a replaced
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.
         
   * - ``result()``
     - | Returns the bulk write result for the operation.

   * - ``upserted_id()``
     - | Returns the ID of the document that was upserted in the database, if the driver
         performed an upsert.

> Example: ``matched_count()``

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
Example: matched_count()
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following example uses the ``replace_one()`` method to replace a document that has
a ``name`` field value of ``Shake Shack`` with a new document that has a ``name`` 
field value of ``In-N-Out Burger``. It then calls the ``matched_count()`` member 

> function to print the number of documents that match the search for a ``name`` field value of ``Shake Shack``:

Reviewer: S: I think you can just say "query filter" here
```suggestion
function to print the number of documents that match the query filter:
```

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-result-matched
      :end-before: end-replace-result-matched
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false

      Matched documents: 11

> Example: ``upserted_id()``

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
Example: upserted_id()
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The following example uses the ``replace_one()`` method to find and replace a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``In-N-Out Burger``. 
> Because the upsert option is set to true, the {+driver-short+} inserts a new document when the query filter doesn't match any existing documents. 
> It then cals the ``upserted_id()`` member function to print the ``_id`` field value of the upserted document. 

Reviewer: S: Some small formatting/wording suggestions:

```suggestion
The following example uses the ``replace_one()`` method to replace a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``"In-N-Out Burger"``. 
Because the ``upsert`` option is set to ``true``, the {+driver-short+} inserts a new document when the query filter doesn't match any existing documents. Then, the code
calls the ``upserted_id()`` member function to print the ``_id`` field value of the upserted document:
```

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-result-upsert
      :end-before: end-replace-result-upsert
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false

> 

Reviewer: S: since the user's ID value will be different, I'd add a comment here that says "your value may differ" or something like that
```suggestion
     // Your ID value may differ
```

Reviewer: The code output [here](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/rust/current/usage-examples/updateMany/#example) in the Rust docs does something similar

A replace operation removes all fields except the ``_id`` field in the target document and replaces them with new ones.
You can call the ``replace_one()`` method to replace a single document.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``restaurants`` collection in the ``sample_restaurants``
database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To access this collection
from your C++ application, instantiate a ``mongocxx::client`` that connects to an Atlas cluster
and assign the following values to your ``db`` and ``collection`` variables:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
    :start-after: start-db-coll
    :end-before: end-db-coll
    :language: cpp
    :dedent:

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

Replace Operation
-----------------

You can perform a replace operation by calling the ``replace_one()`` method.
This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first document that
matches the search criteria. It then inserts the fields and values you specify into the document. 

> Each replace method requires the following parameters:

Reviewer: S: since there's only one replace method, I'd reword slightly
```suggestion
The ``replace_one()`` method requires the following parameters:
```

  the {+mdb-server+} manual.

- **Replace** document: Specifies the fields and values to insert in the new document. 

.. important:: 

   The values of ``_id`` fields are immutable. If your replacement document specifies a value for the ``_id`` field, 
   it must match the ``_id`` value of the existing document.

Replace One Document Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example uses the ``replace_one()`` method to replace 
a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``"Nobu"`` with a new document 
that has a ``name`` field value of ``"La Bernadin"``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
   :start-after: start-replace-one
   :end-before: end-replace-one
   :language: cpp
   :dedent:

To check if you successfully replaced the document, you can use the find_one() method to print out the new document:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-one-io
      :end-before: end-replace-one-io
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:
   
   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false
      
      New document: { "_id" : { "$oid" : "5eb3d668b31de5d588f42e34" }, "name" : "La Bernadin" }  

> To learn more about the find_one() method, see :ref:`cpp-retrieve-find-one` in the Retrieve Data guide.

Reviewer: S:
```suggestion
To learn more about the ``find_one()`` method, see :ref:`cpp-retrieve-find-one` in the Retrieve Data guide.
```

       - :ref:`mongod log messages <log-messages-ref>`, in the
         ``attr.command.cursor.comment`` field
       - :ref:`Database profiler output <profiler>`, in the :data:`system.profile.command <system.profile.command>` ``comment`` field
       - :dbcommand:`currentOp` output, in the :data:`currentOp.command
         <currentOp.command>` ``comment`` field

       | For more information, see the :manual:`insert Command
         Fields guide </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``hint``
     - | Specifies the index to scan for documents that match the query filter.
         For more information, see the :manual:`hint field </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual. 

   * - ``let``
     - | Specifies a document containing variables and their values to be used in the ``replace_one()`` method. 
         This allows you to improve code readability by separating the variables from the operation text. 
         Values must be constant or closed expressions that don't reference document fields. 
         For more information, see the 

>          :manual:`update Command Fields guide </reference/command/update/#std-label-replace-let-syntax>`

Reviewer: S: I think this link is slightly off, so it's just linking to the main page; you should be able to use this link which goes directly to the let field:
```suggestion
         :manual:`let field </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-let-syntax>`
```

         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``upsert``
     - | Specifies whether the replace operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter.
       | Defaults to ``false``.

   * - ``write_concern``
     - | Sets the write concern for the operation.
         For more information, see :manual:`Write Concern </reference/write-concern/>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

Example: hint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following example uses the ``create_index()`` method to create an ascending single-field index 
on the ``name`` field. It then passes a ``mongocxx::options::replace`` object to the ``replace_one()``
method after setting its ``hint`` field to the new index. This instructs the replace operation to search the ``name`` 
field index when replacing a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``"Nobu"``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
   :start-after: start-replace-options-hint
   :end-before: end-replace-options-hint
   :language: cpp
   :dedent:

> To learn more about indexes, see :ref:`Optimize Queries with Indexes <cpp-indexes>`.

Reviewer: S: [nit] you can be a little more specific about where this link is going
```suggestion
To learn more about indexes, see the :ref:`Optimize Queries with Indexes <cpp-indexes>` guide.
```

> Example: upsert 
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: S: I'd clarify that this is an option in the header. Also, make sure your header underline is the same length as the header text
```suggestion
Example: upsert Option
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

Reviewer: Applies to the hint example as well

      :start-after: start-replace-options-upsert
      :end-before: end-replace-options-upsert
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false
      
      Total document count before replace_one(): 25359
      Total document count after replace_one(): 25360

Return Value
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``replace_one()`` method returns an instance of
the ``mongocxx::result::replace`` class. This class contains the following
member functions:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Function
     - Description

   * - ``matched_count()``
     - | Returns the number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
         how many were replaced.

   * - ``modified_count()``
     - | Returns number of documents modified by the replace operation. If a replaced
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.
         
   * - ``result()``
     - | Returns the bulk write result for the operation.

   * - ``upserted_id()``
     - | Returns the ID of the document that was upserted in the database, if the driver
         performed an upsert.

Example: matched_count()

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: S: make sure the underline is the same length as the text; applies to all

function to print the number of documents that match the query filter:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-result-matched
      :end-before: end-replace-result-matched
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false

      Matched documents: 11

Example: upserted_id()
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following example uses the ``replace_one()`` method to replace a document that has a ``name`` field value of ``"In-N-Out Burger"``. 
Because the ``upsert`` option is set to ``true``, the {+driver-short+} inserts a new document when the query filter doesn't match any existing documents. 
Then, the code calls the ``upserted_id()`` member function to print the ``_id`` field value of the upserted document: 

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/write/replace.cpp
      :start-after: start-replace-result-upsert
      :end-before: end-replace-result-upsert
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 
      :language: cli
      :visible: false

      // Your ID value may differ
      Upserted ID: 67128c5ecc1f8c15ea26fcf8

Additional Information 
----------------------

> To learn more about creating query filters, see :ref:`cpp-specify-query`.

Reviewer: S: clarify where this link is going
```suggestion
To learn more about creating query filters, see the :ref:`cpp-specify-query` guide.
```
